# BACKEND TLDR

Every website can be split into 2 parts which are frontend and backend. Frontend is what user see on their screen all that visual etc and backend is what saves and manages your data. For example if you are on Lazada or Shopee, the backend would store your order history, your profile, search result etc.

Say you are on Shopee right now and if you click on order, what actually happens in the background? So basically every computer that is connected to internet can send message across the internet to another computer, that is also connected to the internet. So to visualise this, Shopee have their computer somewhere in the world and our computer is going to send a message continuing our order to that shopee. In this scenario, our computer (the one sending message) is called the *client* and the Shopee computer receiving the message is the *server*. 

But before this happens, computer generally can't receive messages from the internet by default, we (aspiring backend dev) need to program them to be able to receive message. In order to do that we need **backend programming language**. Now almost every programming language has a feature that turns a computer into a server that allows it to receive message. These are one of the popular backend programming language:

+ JavaScript or sometimes called as NodeJs
+ Python
+ Ruby
+ Java

However, using programming by itself is actually kinda hard and it require a huge amount of code, so there are 2 tools that we use to help with this:

1) backend framework
2) packet manager

A backend framework help us build server much easier and with a lot less code. Each programming language has a few different frameworks to choose from but the popular ones are :

+ ExpressJS for JavaScript
+ Python (Django)
+ Ruby (rails)
+ Java Spring.

In backend we also use a lot of code that other people have written called *packages* to do common tasks like calculation, talking to database, set up user login and etc. Backend Dev typically use a lot of packages in developing backend and in order to install and manage all these packages, we use package manager. Again, there are a fair few of package manager but these are the popular ones:

+ npm (JS)
+ pip (Python)
+ Bundler (ruby)
+ Maven (Java)

These are all the technologies we need to build our backend server

---

But it does not end there because we next we need to someplace to save our data for our website. Going back to our  Shopee, data means user data, purchase history, login information and all the product listed, reviews, description and etc. In order to store all these we need a *database*. A *database* helps us store and manage data. it is just a piece of software which usually runs on a different computer but we have to do some setups so that our backend server can communicate with the database. The popular databases are:

+ MySQL
+ PostgresSQL
+ MongoDB

**So if you are just starting out, voila! this is all you need for the backend. You can build most of your project with just a server and a database**

So lets just recap on what we have learned and visualise everything. Based on our Shopee example, when the customer place and order in the *frontend*, FE send a message containing the order to the backend. The *backend* then saves the order to a database and sends back a message to the FE confirming the order was created. Now, the message the FE sends to the BE is known as **request** and the message that the BE sends to FE is known as **response**. This is called a **Request-Response Cycle** and this is how generally how web app work. 

Another example say this Shopee platform has a warehouse and this warehouse has a different FE that sends a request to the backend to get that order. The backend then get the order from the DB and sends it back to the warehouse where the workers can then prep and pack said order.




